---
title: Ports 137, 138, 139, 445 SMB
author: amandaguglieri
draft: false
TableOfContents: true
tags:
  - smb
  - port 445
  - port 137
  - port 138
  - port 139
  - samba
---

# Ports 137, 138, 139, 445 SMB


`Server Message Block` (`SMB`) is a client-server protocol that regulates access to files and entire directories and other network resources such as printers, routers, or interfaces released for the network. It runs mainly on Windows, BUT with the free software project Samba, there is also a solution that enables the use of SMB in Linux and Unix distributions and thus cross-platform communication via SMB.

Basically a SMB server provides arbitrary parts of its local file system as shares. Therefore the hierarchy visible to a client is partially independent of the structure on the server.

Samba is an alternative variant to the SMB server, developed for Unix-based operating system. Samba implements the `Common Internet File System` (`CIFS`) network protocol. [CIFS](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/windows_protocols/ms-cifs/934c2faa-54af-4526-ac74-6a24d126724e) is a "dialect" of SMB. In other words, CIFS is a very specific implementation of the SMB protocol, which in turn was created by Microsoft. This allows Samba to communicate with newer Windows systems. Therefore, it usually is referred to as `SMB / CIFS`. However, CIFS is the extension of the SMB protocol. So when we pass SMB commands over Samba to an older NetBIOS service, it usually connects to the Samba server over TCP ports `137`, `138`, `139`, but CIFS uses TCP port `445` only. There are several versions of SMB, including outdated versions that are still used in specific infrastructures.

|**SMB Version**|**Supported**|**Features**|
|---|---|---|
|CIFS|Windows NT 4.0|Communication via NetBIOS interface|
|SMB 1.0|Windows 2000|Direct connection via TCP|
|SMB 2.0|Windows Vista, Windows Server 2008|Performance upgrades, improved message signing, caching feature|
|SMB 2.1|Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 R2|Locking mechanisms|
|SMB 3.0|Windows 8, Windows Server 2012|Multichannel connections, end-to-end encryption, remote storage access|
|SMB 3.0.2|Windows 8.1, Windows Server 2012 R2||
|SMB 3.1.1|Windows 10, Windows Server 2016|Integrity checking, AES-128 encryption|

In a network, each host participates in the same `workgroup`. A workgroup is a group name that identifies an arbitrary collection of computers and their resources on an SMB network. There can be multiple workgroups on the network at any given time. IBM developed an `application programming interface` (`API`) for networking computers called the `Network Basic Input/Output System` (`NetBIOS`). The NetBIOS API provided a blueprint for an application to connect and share data with other computers. In a NetBIOS environment, when a machine goes online, it needs a name, which is done through the so-called `name registration` procedure. Either each host reserves its hostname on the network, or the [NetBIOS Name Server](https://networkencyclopedia.com/netbios-name-server-nbns/) (`NBNS`) is used for this purpose. It also has been enhanced to [Windows Internet Name Service](https://networkencyclopedia.com/windows-internet-name-service-wins/) (`WINS`).


## Footprinting smb

```shell-session
sudo nmap $ip -sV -sC -p139,445
```

## Attacks

[For some of these attacks we will use smbclient. See  installation, connection and syntax in smbclient ](smbclient.md)


### 1. Null attack

```bash
# Connect to smb [-L|--list=HOST] : Selecting the targeted host for the connection request.
smbclient -L //$ip
```

Smbclient will attempt to connect to the remote host and check if there is any authentication required. If there is, it will ask you for a password for your local username. If we do not specify a specific username to smbclient when attempting to connect to the remote host, it will just use your local machine's username.

We leave the password field blank, simply hitting Enter to tell the script to move along.

After authenticating, we may obtain access to some typical shared folders, such as:

```
ADMIN$ - Administrative shares are hidden network shares created by the Windows NT family of operating systems that allow system administrators to have remote access to every disk volume on a network-connected system. These shares may not be permanently deleted but may be disabled.

C$ - Administrative share for the C:\ disk volume. This is where the operating system is hosted.

IPC$ - The inter-process communication share. Used for inter-process communication via named pipes and is not part of the file system.
WorkShares - Custom share. 
```

We will try to connect to each of the shares except for the IPC$ one, which is not valuable for us since it is not browsable as any regular directory would be and does not contain any files that we could use at this stage of our learning experience: 
```bash
# the use of / and \ might be different if you need to escape some characters
smbclient \\\\$ip\\ADMIN$
```

### 2. smb2 security levels

To detect it, run:

```bash
nmap --script smb2-security-mode -p 445 $ip
# Add -Pn to avoid firewall if needed
```

Output: 

```
 smb2-security-mode:

|   2.02:

|_    Message signing enabled but not required
```

There are three potential results for the message signing:

**1.** Message signing disabled. 

**2.** Message signing enabled but not required (default for SMB2).

**3.** Message signing enabled and required.


Options 1 and 2 are vulnerable to SMB relay attacks.  Option 3 is the most secure option.

In case 1, attack is similar to the first vuln. In the second case, we can bypass login, leaving in blank the password, but including the user in the request:

```bash
smbclient -L \\$ip -U Administrator
# -L: retrieve a list of available shares on the remote host
# -U: user 

smbclient -N -L \\$ip
# -N: Suppresses the password prompt.

```

Important: Sometimes some jugling is needed:

```shell-session
smbclient -N -L \\$ip
smbclient -N -L \\\\$ip
smbclient -N -L /\/\$ip
```


### 3. Signing enabled but not required

 [HackTheBox machine: Tactics](htb-tactics.md) 

After running a nmap with scripts enabled (nmap -sC -A 10.129.228.98  -Pn -p-), you get this response:

```
| smb2-security-mode: 
|   311: 
|_    Message signing enabled but not required

```

This will allow us to use smbclient share enumeration withouth the need of providing a password when signing into the shared folder. For that we will use a well known user in Windows: Administrator.

```bash
smbclient -L $ip -U Administrator
```

Same thing is possible with [rpcclient](rpcclient.md):

```shell-session
# Connect to a remote shared folder (same as smbclient in this regard)
rpcclient -U "" $ip
```


## Enumeration

### rpcclient

[See installation and basic commands](rpcclient.md).

The `rpcclient` offers us many different requests with which we can execute specific functions on the SMB server to get information. A list of some of these functions can be found at [rpcclient](rpcclient.md). 

Most importantly, anonymous access to such services can also lead to the discovery of other users (see list of commands for [rpcclient tool](rpcclient.md), who can be attacked with brute-forcing in the most aggressive case.

Brute forcing user enumeration with rpcclient:

```bash
for i in $(seq 500 1100);do rpcclient -N -U "" $ip -c "queryuser 0x$(printf '%x\n' $i)" | grep "User Name\|user_rid\|group_rid" && echo "";done
```
### samrdump from impacket

An alternative for user enumeration would be a Python script from [Impacket](impacket.md) called [samrdump.py](samrdump.md).


### SMBMap

 [SMBMap](https://github.com/ShawnDEvans/smbmap) tool is widely used and helpful for the enumeration of SMB services.

```shell-session
smbmap -H $ip
```

### CrackMapExec

[CrackMapExec](crackmapexec.md) is widely used and helpful for the enumeration of SMB services.

```shell-session
crackmapexec smb $ip --shares -u '' -p ''
```
### Enum4Linux

[Complete cheat sheet](enum4linux.md).


## Brute force

With [metasploit](metasploit), use the module: `auxiliary/scanner/smb/smb_login`

Use this to enumerate users and brute force passwords in a smb service. Later on, use [CrackMapExec](crackmapexec.md) to pursuit the attack.