---
title: 445 smb
author: amandaguglieri
draft: false
TableOfContents: true
tags:
  - smb
  - port 445
---

# 445 smb

445 smb: there are two main vulns.

first: Null attack
we observe that port 445 TCP for SMB is up and running, which means that we have an active share that we could potentially explore. Think of this share as a folder that can be accessed over the internet. In order to do so, we will need the appropriate services and scripts installed.
In order to successfully enumerate share content on the remote system, we can use a script called smbclient . If the script is not present on your Virtual Machine, you can install it by typing the following command in your terminal (for Debian based operating systems)

## Install smbclient

```bash
sudo apt-get install smbclient
```
Smbclient will attempt to connect to the remote host and check if there is any authentication required. If there is, it will ask you for a password for your local username. We should take note of this. If we do not specify a specific username to smbclient when attempting to connect to the remote host, it will just use your local machine's username. That is the one you are currently logged into your Virtual Machine with. This is because SMB authentication always requires a username, so by not giving it one explicitly to try to login with, it will just have to pass your current local username to avoid throwing an error with the protocol. 

Nevertheless, let us use our local username since we do not know about any remote usernames present on the target host that we could potentially log in with. Next up, after that, we will be prompted for a password. This password is related to the username you input before. Hypothetically, if we were a legitimate remote user trying to log in to their resource, we would know our username and password and log in normally to access our share. In this case, we do not have such credentials, so what we will be trying to perform is any of the following:
Guest authentication

## Anonymous authentication

Any of these will result in us logging in without knowing a proper username/password combination and seeing the files stored on the share. Let us proceed to try that. We leave the password field blank, simply hitting Enter to tell the script to move along.

```bash
# [-L|--list=HOST] : Selecting the targeted host for the connection request.
smbclient -L //<IP>
```

Running the command above, we see that four separate shares are displayed. Let us go through each of them and see what they mean.

```
ADMIN$ - Administrative shares are hidden network shares created by the Windows NT family of operating systems that allow system administrators to have remote access to every disk volume on a network-connected system. These shares may not be permanently deleted but may be disabled.
C$ - Administrative share for the C:\ disk volume. This is where the operating system is hosted.
IPC$ - The inter-process communication share. Used for inter-process communication via named pipes and is not part of the file system.
WorkShares - Custom share. 
```

We will try to connect to each of the shares except for the IPC$ one, which is not valuable for us since it is not browsable as any regular directory would be and does not contain any files that we could use at this stage of our learning experience. We will use the same tactic as before, attempting to log in without the proper credentials to find improperly configured permissions on any of these shares. We'll just give a blank password for each username to see if it works. First, let us try the ADMIN$ one. Run:

```bash
# the use of / and \ might be different if you need to escape some characters
smbclient \\\\<IP>\\ADMIN$
```

The NT_STATUS_ACCESS_DENIED is output, letting us know that we do not have the proper credentials to connect to this share. If a SMB share was poorly configured, it will allow us to log in without the appropriate credentials. We can see our terminal prompt changed to smb: \> , letting us know that our shell is now interacting with the service. We can use the help command to see what we can do within this shell.

second: smb2 security levels
To detect it, run:

```bash
nmap --script smb2-security-mode -p 445 <target ip>
# Add -Pn to avoid firewall if needed
```

Output: 

```
 smb2-security-mode:

|   2.02:

|_    Message signing enabled but not required
```

There are three potential results for the message signing:

**1.** Message signing disabled. 

**2.** Message signing enabled but not required (default for SMB2).

**3.** Message signing enabled and required.


Options 1 and 2 are vulnerable to SMB relay attacks.  Option 3 is the most secure option.

In case 1, attack is similar to the first vuln. In the second case, we can bypass login, leaving in blank the password, but including the user in the request:

```bash
smbclient -L \\<TARGETIP> -U Administrator
# -L: retrieve a list of available shares on the remote host
# -U: user 

smbclient -N -L \\<TARGETIP>
# -N: Suppresses the password prompt.

```

Important: Sometimes some jugling is needed:

```shell-session
smbclient -N -L \\<TARGETIP>
smbclient -N -L \\\\<TARGETIP>
smbclient -N -L /\/\<TARGETIP>

```


##  Signing enabled but not required

 [HackTheBox machine: Tactics](htb-tactics.md) 

After running a nmap with scripts enabled (nmap -sC -A 10.129.228.98  -Pn -p-), you get this response:

```
| smb2-security-mode: 
|   311: 
|_    Message signing enabled but not required

```

This will allow us to use smbclient share enumeration withouth the need of providing a password when signing into the shared folder. For that we will use a well known user in Windows: Administrator.


```bash
smbclient -L 10.129.228.98 -U Administrator
```
